uh-oh your phone starts getting slow
it's battery doesn't last as long as
before apps keep crashing could it be
something you've been doing wrong
oh no let's check if you've broken any
important rules hmm don't charge your
phone in its case
well charging most phones get warmer if
the case is on the heat gets trapped
inside and can't dissipate it can harm
your gadget don't charge your phone in
the car a car lighter part usually
provides 12 volts of power while your
phone only needs 5 volts if you use a
faulty third party adapter to regulate
the voltage your phone can sometimes
receive too much power it's likely to
mess up the battery over time don't use
your phone as a camera too often they
put your device under big strain to make
it easier for your digital friend switch
on airplane mode while recording videos
or taking pics don't trust DIY tricks
from putting toothpaste on the screen to
rubbing it with foil it's never a good
idea if you still want to try some tip
you found online try it on your old
phone first this way you can see how it
goes don't let your phone's insides get
dirty
cleaning the internal parts is as
important as wiping the screen dust lint
and dirt can mess up your device big
time but don't try to open the phone on
your own to clean it leave it to
professionals don't put your phone in
rice some sources recommend doing it
after dropping your gadget in the water
they claim rice grains can absorb all
the liquid but when the rice gets mixed
with water it produces a paste that can
gum up small parts inside your device
don't underestimate apps light versions
many of them including Facebook and
YouTube have the same set of features as
the regular ones if you switch to light
versions you won't notice any great
difference but your phone will start
working way faster don't keep bloatware
it's unnecessary software included on a
new device by
the manufacturer it usually takes up a
lot of memory and is likely to slow your
phone down if you aren't going to use
these amps disable or delete them if
possible don't wait to replace a cracked
screen otherwise dust grease and oils
from your fingers will get into the
cracks it can eventually make the screen
stop working whatsoever you might also
get a cut while running your finger over
the broken glass
don't let apps pile up it increases the
phone's battery drain go through your
apps and delete the ones you don't use
or those with the same functions don't
use public charging ports such ports at
restaurants and airports can potentially
give access to everything you store on
your phone it's safer to use a power
bank instead don't use public Wi-Fi
those who know where to look can easily
get hold of the information you send and
receive over a public Wi-Fi connection
they can even get inside your device
Wi-Fi networks you use have to be
password protected and familiar to you
don't use your phone when the signal is
weak in this case it has to work
overtime constantly sending signals to
the nearest cell phone towers when the
device fails to make a connection it has
to send the signal again with increased
power better switch to airplane mode
till the service gets back to normal
don't charge your phone during a
thunderstorm unplug your device and all
other electronic appliances as soon as
the storm begins no matter how good your
network filters are a lightning bolt can
cause a voltage search that will wreck
your phone use a power bank or a laptop
to charge it don't drain or charge the
battery completely both things can wear
the battery out keep it between 40 and
80 percent full to make your phone serve
longer
don't use your phone during charging it
won't cause any harm to the gadget or
pose any danger to you but your phone's
battery will charge at a much slower
rate than usual and if you keep gaming
or watching videos in the process it can
disrupt the battery charging cycle don't
delete files while transferring them
from your phone to PC otherwise if the
connection is suddenly lost your files
will be gone for good
don't ignore a wireless charging pad
your phone charger port is one of the
most sensitive parts since it gets so
much wear and tear and a wireless
charging pad can provide it with a
much-needed rest just keep in mind that
this way the whole process is a bit
slower than charging through an outlet
don't let apps track your location
some of them like Maps or taxi services
really need to know where you are to
work properly but lots of others have
this feature on by default to make your
battery last longer
turn off geolocation for such apps don't
close background apps if you do it and
then open them again your phone will
have to waste more energy closed
background apps only if you need to
restart unresponsive ones
don't let app cache build up clear cache
data regularly so that your phone
doesn't take forever to perform usual
tasks just keep in mind that clearing an
app's cache deletes all the preferences
safe for this app don't forget to
restart your phone if you don't do it
regularly your device keeps storing
unnecessary data this may cause it to
work more slowly rebooting the gadget
once a week is enough don't use
antivirus apps most modern smartphones
already have some kind of virus
protection antivirus apps can drain your
battery not giving much in return don't
browse untrustworthy sites and down
outside of the official app store and
your phone safe don't neglect your SD
card if your apps keep crashing for no
reason a corrupted SD card might be to
blame formatting it can give your phone
a necessary boost it'll also delete junk
files don't store apps on an SD card
keeping your apps in your phone's
internal memory makes them work faster
if there isn't enough space for all your
apps move those you don't use often to
the SD card don't overload your phone
store your pics important documents and
downloaded music in the cloud not only
will it help your phone to operate
faster but it'll also make all your data
accessible from different devices don't
update apps using mobile internet many
of them are programmed to update
themselves in the background to provide
you with fresh information all the time
go to Settings auto-update apps and
choose auto update apps over Wi-Fi only
it'll prevent your apps from accessing
mobile networks all the time and your
phone will work faster don't forget to
check your apps if your phone is
starting to work more slowly than before
just one power hogging app might be the
culprit look through your smartphone's
battery usage it'll help you pinpoint
which app it is due your gadget a favor
and delete the energy drainer don't let
your phone get too cold or too hot
temperature extremes mess up the work of
your gadget don't leave it in a car on a
freezing winter day and if it's
scorching hot outside turn the device
off to prevent it from overheating in
your pocket don't go overboard with
visuals bright moving wallpaper or too
many widgets make your phone work harder
and drain its battery in no time better
switch to a simple background image
don't put your phone in your bag without
a cover the cover will protect your
gadget from scratch is made by sharp
objects for example your keys
it'll also save the phone from dust when
it builds up inside this can lead to
overheating don't buy cheap chargers
many phone manufacturers insist you buy
only original charging devices but there
are plenty of high-quality and safe
third-party ones at a reasonable price
just don't fall for super cheap
knockoffs they'll definitely cause
problems and there you go